Episode 9, George.
After spending the day with Miki, he insisted that we spend the night in
the Presidential Palace instead of our shabby hotel, and we agreed eagerly.
Anyway, after drinking way too much vodka, we just wanted to flop down into a comfortable bed.
And the beds in the palace were a big step up from the ones in Hotel Paradiskiv.
I didn’t see a single cockroach!
The morning after, Miki had said that he wanted to spend more time
with us, but he was hosting the Prime Minister of Belarus for a
three-day meeting, so we had breakfast and then went off in his limo.
Once in the limo, I asked Elizabeth her thoughts.
“I don’t know what to think,” she said.
“He really is the same old Miki; he’s fun and easygoing, he's intellectual and charming.
But… look at this…”
She motioned with her hand to the rows of banners lining the streets,
each one proudly displaying Miki’s face above a propaganda slogan.
“But he’s an old friend,” Elizabeth continued, “and I want to give him the benefit of the doubt.”
Once back at the hotel, we instructed the limo to wait outside
while we packed our things for the airport and freshened up.
But when I opened the door to my hotel room, I got a huge surprise.
A scruffy man was sitting on my bed.
He was wearing a shabby green jacket and had a paranoid look about him.
“Who the hell are you?” I asked, annoyed at his presence in my room.
“And how did you get in here?”
The man just put his finger to his lips and picked up the telephone next to my bed.
Turning it over, he showed me an electronic device attached underneath.
He pointed towards the bathroom.
I understood – he wanted to talk in there.
Once I was inside the cramped bathroom, with this
unpleasant-smelling man, he turned on the water tap.
I hoped he might have a wash, but I suppose it was to obscure our conversation.
“I’m Haydiniv,” he told me in a whisper.
“I was once the leader of a group opposed to Miki’s rule.”
“That makes you an anarchist or a communist, then,” I said,
speaking at a normal volume and refusing to play his silly game.
“No,” he insisted.
“A true democrat.
If you want anarchists or communists, go to Oxford University.”
I rolled my eyes.
“What do you want?”
“If you want to know the real truth about Ankhazastan, listen to me.
Not Miki’s version of truth.
He is cruel and sadistic man, like his father… worse.
He talks about reform just to look good in front of Western friends.
Meanwhile…”
A loud knock on the door made the man jump in panic.
With amazing agility, he pushed a piece of paper into my
hand, opened the bathroom window and climbed out and away.
I looked out to see him scuttling down the drainpipe.
The paper he had given me held a phone number.
When I opened the door, Elizabeth was standing there.
“I heard voices coming from your room,” she said.